I'm here to talk to you tonight about
what it feels like to be a creative in
this moment. Not like what we're reading
about on LinkedIn or whatever, not what
we're hearing about at WebSummit, but
what it actually feels like to wake up
every single day and to live a creative
life and produce creative work in this
moment that no one really asked for.
this moment of changing everything where
on one hand there's a whole bunch of
stuff to be concerned about and afraid
of and on the other hand there's so much
opportunity and curiosity and
transformation taking place that it's an
impossibility to look away and so I'm
going to encourage you to walk forward
into the future with both hands full to
have one hand full of critique and
resistance to
many of the negative implications that
AI is bringing into our lives and our
society and in the other hand a
curiosity and a desire to understand
what's going on and to participate in
the future and to transform. So that's
what I'm here to do today.
You heard my intro. My name is Chris. I
um have been running these Vancouver AI
meetups at my studio for the last couple
years. started off as a just me and Sev,
not actually, but it was like 50 people.
Now there's like 250 people that come
every month to the Space Center. We've
got an amazing program. It's resulted in
We've had hackathons. We gave away
15,000 bucks last year to people in our
community. Um it's turned into a really
awesome thing. Subgroups have sprung
out. There's now a Suriri group, a
Vancouver Island group. There's um an
ethics group that uh Sev is helping to
lead up. There's an education group.
There's all sorts of things springing
out of this amazing community. And so we
registered a nonprofit ecosystem, an
association, a professional network. Um,
a whole bunch of people have joined
that. And then my day job is I run an AI
company called the Upgrade.AI. I've run
seven six-week cohorts over the last two
years for creative professionals,
filmmakers, animators, designers,
writers, marketers who are trying to
reinvent themselves,
rebuild their workflows, understand the
tools. So, what this means is I get to
talk about this stuff with creative
people all the time. I've been like in
relationship with probably about 200
creative professionals have gone through
this program in the last couple years
trying to figure out what they need to
know and where to go from here. And so
that brings me into a lot of
conversations. And if you've been in
some AI conversations, you probably know
that every most all conversations fall
into one of these two sides in the
world. We got the boosters on one side.
These are usually Silicon Valley people,
tech CEOs, investor types saying if you
haven't adopted AI, you're already
behind. Get with the program. You know,
AI is changing everything. It's amazing.
And this perspective,
it doesn't resonate with me all the way
because that's only one part of the, you
know, the equation. Yeah, there's some
interesting things going on, but then we
got this other stuff over here, too. You
know, it's been trained on all of the
stolen work of mankind. My work is in
there. There's a website you can go to
called have I beenrained.com. You can
put in your works and you can know if AI
has been trained on your works. my my
photography because I released it on
Creative Commons on Flickr over like 20
years. I've got like 1,900 photos in the
main Nvidia data set where they slurped
it out of Flickr trained on it and that
that's what's in every AI that generates
images in the world is 1,700,800 of my
photos. You should take a look and see
have I been trained.com.
It's destroying jobs. We should resist
it. I'm I'm more sympathetic to this
camp, I must say. But this this
perspective too doesn't take everything
into account. You know, both of these
things are lazy because the height
perspective keeps us from engaging
critically. And the critical
perspective, it's all that you have. It
doesn't really tell you what to do in
this moment, how to go forward. So,
I'm going to encourage you to walk
forward with both hands full. AI is
trained on the stolen work of mankind
without consent.
and I'm more creative, productive, and
more powerful than I've ever been in my
whole life. Both of these things are
true. I'm asking you to embrace this
contradiction and to walk forward
despite that. And I'm going to show you
some ways that I think that we can do
that. We talked a little about the
stolen work,
whose values are embedded in all that
work? Whose biases are in there? What's
what's what's actually going on under
the surface? You know, we don't actually
even know this race to the bottom that a
lot of us see. You know, like if a
someone can generate a logo in 30
seconds or 10,000 logos in 5 minutes,
you know, are you really going to be
able to sell your work for $15,000,
$25,000? Clients are getting good enough
work that picks them keeps them from
picking up the phone and calling a lot
of creative people.
this whole junior pipeline jobs, they're
going away, particularly in this junior
roles very very fast. These are the
roles that used to make senior
creatives. You know, you you'd get hired
at a studio and there'd be some approved
assets and then you'd be asked to
convert those assets into a whole bunch
of different formats for the next six
months. Well, that's how you learn the
whole process, the system, the client,
the back and forth. That's how you
really kind of come up to speed is that
on the job training. So those are the
things we're seeing going away right
now. And so it's like, well, what is the
pathway from university or school
students to senior jobs if all these
middle parts are going away?
The cognitive dependency bit where we're
seeing all these scientific studies
that's like, yo, if you don't use your
muscles, you lose your muscles, you
know, and so if we're not using our
brains to do the first stages of
projects to do the idea generation or
these other things, what happens?
Well, we don't know what happens. We're
all living kind of in this experiment.
You know, we're about to see what
happens. And then like if anyone can
generate anything all the time, why does
someone really even need us anyway? Why
does people need creatives if all these
robots can do all these things just as
easily? What are some of the other fears
that you guys are hearing or or that I
haven't mentioned here yet? What are
some of the things that are keeping you
from engaging or that you're hearing
from other people? You're welcome to
shout them out or raise your hand. You
guys hearing other other things that
worry you about AI that you
>> robot
machine gun.
>> Absolutely. Killer robots, man, is on
the top of my list, too. And we got to
stand up against that because Mark
Carney's dedicated to it right now. And
his minister, Evan Solomon, is rolling
out a whole bunch of killer robot
initiatives across the board, too.
>> Environmental impacts.
>> Environmental impacts. Power, water, how
much is being used? Are we just building
things as fast as we can without any
regard for if we need it, if we want it?
>> Uh, water waste. Yeah. Water waste
impact.
>> Yes, sir.
>> Reliability.
>> Open that one up a little bit.
>> Uh I'm a coder.
>> Yeah.
>> So,
>> quality. Is it good?
>> Yeah.
>> And uh it makes a lot of mistakes.
>> Mhm.
>> We're raising a generation of students
that will never learn how to write.
The classroom has so many it's such an
interesting lens to look through and
looking at all this stuff because you
have to look at learning and assessment
and uh preparation, you know, human
development. There's all these different
things and it's a very good laboratory
for for studying those things. Yes.
>> The ability for people to generate
sexual images of people only like a
picture.
>> Yeah. So this last couple weeks, one of
the AIs without, you know, much
provocation, you can get it to remove
people's clothes. Doesn't matter what
age they are. All sorts of abuse
materials been created in these last
couple weeks using these tools.
>> Future doctors.
>> Future doctors. Open that one up a
little more.
>> Like uh we we are hearing like lot lot
of new people are learning from AI.
>> Oh yeah, totally. So like um
if all our doctors are trained by
robots, this is what you're saying, you
know, like human factors type stuff.
Yeah. Anyone else got some stuff? I
think these are all valid. Yeah.
>> Especially for artists, I think artistic
output as emotional content. So how do
you define that and how does AI handle
that? Is that even possible for
>> I think I hear the fear in there which
is like um that our content will like
not carry the same emotive quality as
when it's being made by humans and that
we're losing something because of that.
Something like that. Yeah.
Yep. I don't have answers to any of
these questions by the way. It's the I
teach this [__] for a living and I don't
know anyone who will stand up and tell
you that they've got all these things
figured out or not to worry about them.
Those are the people to not listen to.
So now I'm going to try to show you the
other hand. What what what's going on in
the other hand? And I offer you a couple
examples of some friends and
collaborators of mine. The lady on the
your left is Maya. She's um she helped
design the some of the original
interfaces for Etsy. She's worked in New
York as a UX and UI designer for a long
time before coming to Vancouver. Super
high-end first order in her field. I've
watched her in the last two months
reinvent her whole workflow using Figma
make and chat GPT and a bunch of other
tools to reinvent her whole pipeline.
Even using chat GPT to code up some of
the parts that were missing connecting
her tools together, you know, so that
she could do things in new ways with
stuff that just came out. I got this
other buddy Kevin. He worked in film and
television, traditional film and
television for like 25 years. Well,
that's all changing. And I've watched
him in the last little while start to
build tools and systems to do new AI
special effects animations. He's got
this really think cool thing he calls
the Vibe Lounge. It's a program he runs
on screens like this. It's for like um
like while I was giving this talk, it
could be listening to what I'm saying
and generating live visuals on the
screen behind based on what I'm talking
about. He runs it at a lot of our events
so that when you know speakers up there
they're getting live generative visuals
in real time based on what you know
that's something I've watched him build
and then like he start he uses that as a
competitive differentiator as his for
his video work. So when someone hires
him as a video guy he comes up pops up
on his screen sets up his vibe lounge
and starts generating things and
providing this really cool generative
experience that's just like turnkey. You
just turn it on, the voice starts
prompting it.
So, I said I've never felt as uh
creative, productive, or as powerful as
I do right now. And these are some of
the things that I'm talking about. I um
I trained a model on 2,000 of my
cross-process street portraits as a
photographer and then use that as a way
to better understand my unique
photographic style and fingerprint and
visual style. And I was able to kind of
distill that down into its core
components, my creative DNA, the part
that made me different, using this model
that's never seen any other human face
before except for the 2,000 faces that I
trained on. And so now it understands
what human faces are only from my
photographs. And so as I begin to work
with this, I own all the outputs of it.
It's not like I'm using all of your
guys' stolen trained work through GPT.
And it's also not like I'm um allowing
the models to ingest that into their
training data either. I'm keeping it
over here by itself where I know
everything that goes into it and I own
everything that comes out of it.
I um
I love vibe coding right now. I'm going
to get into it later. I'll tell you more
what it is, but I um took the 485 page
Mark Carney federal budget and wanted to
know about the AI stuff. I realized it
was going to take me like three weeks to
read the thing. So, I just dropped it
into a vibe coding tool and was like,
"Yo, build me a dashboard for this so
that I can slice and dice and sort and
understand this budget with interactive
charts and diagrams or whatever." Just
singles prompt. came back with a full
interactive website powered by the
budget that I could then ask questions
to chatbt style m remix the graphics and
charts and really understand what was
going on in there.
Um, I am really hyped right now on
knowledge bases, building of knowledge
bases. And the way that I do this
primarily is through recording and
transcription. And I'm just learning
this right now and even inventing kind
of some stuff. But this is a really
interesting area to pay attention to.
Imagine if a student here at LA started
a class on day one. On day one, they put
a syllabus into a knowledge base plus a
recording of the first class. Then they
go do their assignment. Maybe they drop
the PDFs into the knowledge base too
that they're supposed to uh read for the
assignment. And maybe they're supposed
to analyze, you know, the ass the the
the readings and then so they write
something, add that to the knowledge
base, too. By like week two, you've got
two recordings of the teacher talking,
two homework assignments, a syllabus. By
the end of that course, you have
everything you learned in the thing, and
you can just start speaking into the
thing. It's got your knowledge layered
on top of the school's knowledge, plus
the the readings and the writings you're
supposed to be doing. You can be like,
"Yo, based on everything I've learned
and wrote about this whole term, give me
the top three things I learned in this
class, give it as an essay, make some
infographics about that." So, recording
into transcription, into knowledge
bases, and then applying AI on top of it
is something you're going to hear me
talk about over and over and over again.
It's it's such a emerging and modern
thing.
Okay, I wanted to show you training the
model. These are the um photos that I
put into the AI's mind when I was first
um getting started. This is like 2,000
pictures I took of people along the way.
I used some data science stuff to align
the eyeballs and then like um make them
all about the same size so that there
was a you know reproducibility in the
results. So this was the raw materials
that I started with
and then this is the interface into the
model that I was using to train. And
this is this this thing has been built
at SFU. It's called AutoLoom and it's a
neural visual synthesizer. What that
means is the neural part is you're
looking into the latent space of the
mind of the AI, the LLM, and you're able
to see in there all the different
permutations of what it could generate
and you can walk through the vectors in
the latent space of that database. And
what you see is the face is changing.
Um, and you can generate new people from
the people that were already in there.
These were some of my favorites. This is
a very early um, research that I was
doing at SFU. These are not real people.
These are faces that came out of my AI
that I built that was trained on only
having seen my photographs.
We took this research and we presented
it at the RS Electronica Festival in
Linds last year in September in Europe.
And um we got an honorable mention for
the work. Um it's the world's biggest
digital art festival and fair. And um
and then we took the research and we
published it as well. And it's also so
it's been in this peer-reviewed setting
published and we've won an award for it.
This is what happens when you like take
your creativity and your curiosity and
you get serious about it. You're like
okay I'm going to feed all my photos in
train a model on it figure out what it
knows about me share my learnings with
the world at a conference in a paper and
then make this a part. You know, I'm not
being a consumer of chatbt out of
Silicon Valley. I'm being like a
producer of creativity and new models
and new ways of looking at things.
I want to talk a little bit about the
hard skills and soft skills that I think
will be useful to you as you go forward.
On the left, you got some tech skills,
things like prompting, prompt
engineering. These are useful things to
learn about. Workflow, how to tie these
systems together, how to work with like
APIs and API keys. This is something
you've probably heard about. Very, very
useful skill for tying all this stuff
together. It's very easy for those of
you who don't know what that is. Um,
it's a way to get computer systems to
talk together and um, it's as easy as
logging in and grabbing a security key
and putting it somewhere else so these
two systems can talk to each other. But
by doing so, you're tying multiple
powerful things together into a custom
workflow for you.
How to organize this stuff over time
such that you get the best utility from
it. how to build GitHub repos, local
knowledge bases, and how to get these
things to talk and sync to one another
so you can share them and collaborate
with others, access them from different
devices, get different types of AIs to
connect to that type of stuff.
Compositing, who you know what I'm
talking about, compositing, layering,
taking
outputs from multiple different AIs and
putting them together in a way that you
control. I think one of the illusions is
that there's like this big green button
that says like make AI film or something
like this. And while there's many easy
parts of the process, it's definitely
not that easy. You find that anyone
who's making a real film is generating
multiple things in multiple places and
then working in somewhat of a
traditional way in Da Vinci Resolve or
something like that, bringing the
components together, adding their
special things on top of it. So, you
know, you can think of it uh as a
traditional skill set of layering and
compositing, but using AI generative
stuff. It's it's quite powerful and
amazing. And then model training, like I
just showed you, training your own
models on your own work.
Um, let's talk but those are just like
the table stakes, you know, and and that
just is what gets your exploration
started. I think that these are the
things that we're really going to want
to like lean into as well. And these are
the things that you probably learn in
places like this at school, you know,
the the critical thinking, the
discernment. I mean if you can teach an
AI why you choose one thing instead of
another you're teaching it something
very very useful right like what is the
discernment the critical thinking part
of why your taste says that this thing
is better than another thing this is
something that I am trying to teach an
AI right now is like how to develop my
taste
okay I want to show you guys a little
bit of my creative stack because this is
what unlock unlocks a lot of the power
um here who here uses like notion or
some sort of like second brain type
situation. Couple notion users. Sev was
using notion. Is there when I say second
brain, is there any other tools that
people are using that are maybe similar
that Obsidian or anyone else down with
this second brain concept?
All right. Well, at the very low end,
you got like a Google Drive, a
wellorganized Google Drive. You know,
it's got folders for your different
projects. It's got all your things
labeled there. The names are kind of
similar. you know, it's well organized
information. Um, Notion's a great way to
do that, but with AI on top. And I would
even say that if you're not paying for
any AI subscriptions at all right now
whatsoever, you may consider paying for
the $20 a month notion because you get
access to like the four primary models
as a part of your subscription. So, you
can talk to Chad GPT, Gemini, Claude,
and Grock all right there in the notion
interface. but you're talking to those
things on top of your knowledge that
already exists in there. So the types of
outputs and results you're getting
aren't the generic GPT slot that we're
all so familiar with. It's like straight
up your ideas and knowledge remixed
together. So I that that that's where
every good conversation I have with an
AI somewhere on the internet ends up
back in my notion so that it can be
compounded and referenced later. So, you
need some sort of notebook or notion or
obsidian, some second brain where all
this stuff can live and you can really
start to grow it over time. Plaude.
That's my little recorder I'm wearing on
my wrist. I record everything,
transcribe it, put it in my knowledge
base. I compost all my old ideas into
new ideas, remix them. I'm sure there's
something from this talk I could use,
you know, for a article on my blog
tomorrow about AI creativity for
professionals. And um you know I could
have chatbt write an article, but if I
have it write this article on top of the
transcript from this, it's pretty much
going to be what I'm sharing here. My
words, my examples, my style, and none
of the kind of generic slot [__]
Notebook LM. Anyone been messing with
Notebook LM? It's crazy. It's really
crazy. It's a Google product. It's free.
Again, you uh add 20 or 30 documents to
it and then it starts building you
assets. It can build strategic reports,
slide decks, infographics, audio
podcast, video podcast, all sorts of
stuff. It's a great way to I used it to
prep for tonight. I took all my
different docs that I had been building
for here and I put it in notebook LM and
I'm like, make me a podcast to help me
prepare for my talk tonight. And it's
like, Chris, here's your talking points.
Let's go through them together. And it
just starts to train me back. I also
have this uh show on CBC called
Sandboxing AI. And sometimes I get
called like out of the blue to do an
episode. Um because there's some news
like Jeffrey Hinton from um University
of Toronto won a Nobel Prize last year
um for his work in AI and they asked me
to go on the radio in like an hour and
talk about the Nobel Prize and I wasn't
that familiar with like neural networks
or back propagation or a lot of the more
technical concepts that he won the award
for. But I downloaded a couple things in
two minutes, dropped it into notebook
LM, had it made me a podcast and hopped
on the bus and listened to the podcast
twice. And by the time I got there, I
was like fully briefed on all the stuff
I the more technical parts I needed to.
So Notebook would be a great place to do
that um that class example I gave where
if you're taking a class, put all the
syllabuses in it, all the talks in it,
all your homework in it, and then have
it generate more stuff. Notebook LM is a
great place to start and it's free.
Perplexity uh is a research tool that I
use. It's a lot like the other, you
know, like Chat GPT, but it goes way
deeper. If I ask it a question, a
research question, it'll like pull up a
podcast and have it cued at the part in
the podcast where the thing that I'm
looking for is, or it'll like pull up a
YouTube video, but not the whole YouTube
video, just the 30 second part where
it's exactly the answer to your
question. And um you can get a year's
worth for free. I don't have the link
right now, but but if you Google a
year's worth of perplexity for free, oh,
if you have a PayPal account, if you
have a PayPal account, you get a year's
worth of perplexity for free, which is
like 30 bucks a month or something. So,
and it's real. I'm a couple months into
that.
Um, chat GPT I still use every day for
all sorts of things. It's got a lot of
cool new features coming out all the
time. Like, um, what was it yesterday?
I, uh, oh, there's a vibe coding tool
called Lovable and you can connect
ChatgPT to it now. ChatGpt connects to
everything now. So, anytime you're
talking to it, you should have it
connect to your Google Drive or your
Gmail or your Google calendar and be
like, "Yo, analyze my 2025 emails and
tell me which ones I forgot to reply
to." It'll go through your Gmail and
chug away and give you a top 10
prioritized emails that are you're
leaving deals on the table or something
like that.
Claude Code,
I'm so hyped on Claude Code right now.
Who Who's run Cloud Code?
>> I hope there's other people like Sev who
have but just aren't raising their hand.
This is an incredible tool, you guys.
Um, it's an agentic coding platform, but
I'm not using it for coding. I'm using
it for all sorts of knowledge management
as well where I'm feeding transcripts
into it, having to help me build my
databases and knowledge bases. But just
yesterday, a new tool came out called
Claude Co-work. And it's essentially
Claude Code for non-technical people. So
you don't need to know about GitHub. You
don't need to know about code or
anything like that. You can literally
just go in there. Maybe I'll show it at
the end because not a lot of people have
access to it. It just came out
yesterday. Um but it's like a full uh
work environment. It can do all your
work for you. um log into your email,
log into your schedule, log into your
accounting platform, build reports out
of all those things. Turn those reports
into, you know, all sorts of content.
It's it's really incredible. So, you're
going to be hearing more and more about
claude co-work, but I also encourage you
to check out the the clawed code thing,
too. It's quite it's quite crazy and
powerful.
Um, MidJourney, who's generating images
or videos or something like that with
MidJourney?
A few people. Um, this is my favorite
imagination platform. It's a great way
to really just start to flow out a lot
of ideas really quickly and you can
build different mood boards based on
your old work so that the new work that
comes out of it looks, you know, in the
style that you've currently got going.
You can develop a new style and then
carry that through on other work. You
know, a couple years ago when these
things came out, the critique was like,
"Oh, you can never make characters look
the same twice or it's hard to control
these things while generating these
things." Well, a lot of that's changed.
All this stuff is um
moving at light speed. And so even
things that were not, you know, a couple
years ago, we used to make jokes all the
time like it wouldn't get hands right,
you know, or something. Like there was a
while where I would go around to my
friends baby pictures on Facebook and be
like, "Oh, that's so AI. Just look at
the hands, you know, or whatever.
They're real pictures just to to tease
people." But that was like a all that's
in the past now. It's it's been sorted
out. And um 11 Labs is another critical
piece of my stack. Um it does generative
voice based on my own voice. So like um
I rehearsed this talk tonight by writing
out my script, dropping it into 11 Labs,
then I would get back a 20-minute MP3 in
my own voice of me reading the script so
I could kind of hear it a few times and
hear how the flow was going and the talk
was going. um you know you could
generate a whole virtual podcast with
that thing that are in your voice. Um so
these tools together represent like my
stack and it helps me in with with all
these pieces together I can do almost
anything and they all kind of fit
together and do a very specific purpose.
Um I'm adopting tools that give me like
10x
amplification, not just small
amplification. I'm not looking for
things that just make things a little
bit easier. I'm looking for things that
really change my whole workflow and make
me reimagine how I'm doing work. When I
talk about changing your whole workflow
and changing the way we're doing work,
vibe coding has done that more than
anything for me. Like I've done a lot of
web design projects, a lot of
consulting, web development. Usually it
goes like this. You have a client
meeting, they give you some requirements
or a spec. They tell you what they want
and you ask them a bunch of questions.
You do some discovery. You leave and you
go back and you do some thinking. You
present them back a proposal. You're
like, "Here's what I'm going to build.
Is this what you want? Let's just say
they say yes. They don't always say yes.
Usually there's some revision, but they
say yes. Then you go off and you build
it. And sometimes you start with like
two different directions, you know, and
then you have them kind of choose one
and then you you build that one out. You
show it to them. By the time you show it
to them, it's maybe like six weeks
later. And usually the first thing that
they do is they're like, "Oh [__]
that's actually exactly what I asked
for, but what I asked you for isn't what
I actually need. I didn't realize it
until I'm actually like looking at it."
That's and then you go through this
process of changing. There's expense
involved and and sometimes projects just
die at this point. It's like they take a
couple cracks at it. They don't get what
they think they need. Run out of money.
Run out of budget. Not sure where to go
from here. So in the new way, and I've
done this like a bunch of times
recently. You're on the call with them
and you're listening and you're hearing,
you're taking their documents. You're
dropping into these vibe coding tools.
And many times I'm able to show somebody
on the call, the initial onehour call,
like three different versions of what
they think they're asking me for um
right there on the call, you know, and
it's it's a it's a pretty mind-blowing
deal when you show somebody back exactly
what they asked for, but they also have
this perception that some technical
genius had to go do it and take six
weeks and come back to you. And you find
that it just shortcuts this whole
iterative process where you're showing
the person the designs and doing
feedback. You can show people things the
very first day and be like often I find
I don't leave those calls with work. The
client leaves the calls with work where
they're like okay I I see now that I
really need to figure out how I want
this to work. I hadn't thought it all
the way through. So um this vibe coding
tool more than anything has really
helped me
uh speed up all the iterations like to
develop new I can have like a new idea
and have it start to be developing while
I'm doing something else or doing
multiple things simultaneously. This is
a true unlock here.
Um, I get to show a little clip from my
favorite movie ever, which is called
Rip, a Remix Manifesto. It's from 2008.
And um, it was right at the beginning
when we when we started hearing about
remix samples, copyright
electronic dance music. And um, you
know, the the DJs were stealing from
culture essentially songs, copyrighted
songs, and remixing those and putting
them out of their as their own music.
So that's like almost 20 years old, but
I feel like it's important because we
find ourselves right there again. Um
where you know the the the manifesto
that it says is like culture always
builds on the past. The past tries to
control the future. Our future is
becoming less free. To build free
societies, you must limit the control of
the past. So, I'm trying to like
interpret this now through the lens of
AI where it they stole all our work. Um,
it's in there and we're not we're unsure
what it means for copyright, both our
claims on our work, but also the works
that come out of that material as well.
It's a very very uncertain time and
there's a lot of this stuff that's being
rewritten or yet to be defined. Just
last week, I got a book a notice from my
I've written a couple books and I got a
notice from my publisher. They they were
successful in a class action lawsuit, $
1.5 billion dollar lawsuit against
Anthropic on behalf of a bunch of major
publishing houses authors because they
stole our books and they trained their
models on them or whatever. So, I'm
going to be getting like a $1,800 check,
which is like my little slice of uh, you
know, the the settlement, but just to
say that these things are being figured
out right now, you know, and and for
Anthropic, it's like worth it to them
because like they'll pay $1.5 billion to
keep all that training data because
they're about to like eliminate, you
know, whole categories of jobs based on
that training data. They're going after
$40 trillion of human work essentially
is what they're going after. you know,
those those companies, those data
centers, the reason things are going so
crazy fast is because they think that
they can replace 40 million $40 trillion
worth of human labor specifically.
That's that's where all the upside comes
from, you know. Um, it's really crazy.
But I I I also think that this idea of
like thinking of ourselves, creatives,
as like DJs, sampling and remixing
things from our inspirations, from our
previous work, from our clients, uh,
PRDs and, you know, requirements
documents and stuff. This is really the
job. And how can we can do that
efficiently with our own fingerprint on
it?
Okay.
I only got one guy in the front falling
asleep, but he looks like he's been
working hard. Are you guys doing okay?
>> Okay. Um, I got a couple other little
things I want to show you and then we're
going to move into a time where we can
talk about some of this together. Um, so
this is my favorite podcaster. His name
is Darkesh Patel and um, he has a very,
uh, high-end AI thinkers on it. The guy
who's on here has to disguise his
identity because he works for OpenAI.
So, this is like one of the builders of
this stuff talking about where he thinks
we're going in the future and what we
should do about it. And uh I couldn't
not share it.
Take two. Taresh Patel.
>> So, you wrote an interesting comment
about getting your work into the LLM
training corpus. You wrote, quote,
"There has never been a more vital hingy
time to write." And I'm wondering
whether you mean that in the sense of
you are going to be this drop in the
bucket that's steering the shog at one
way or another or do you mean it in the
sense of making sure your values and
persona persist somewhere in latent
space?
>> I mean both um you know by writing
you're voting on the future of the
shagut using some of the few currencies
it acknowledges uh right like tokens
that it has to predict. If you aren't
writing, uh, you're kind of abdicating
the future or abdicating your role in
it. If you think it's enough to just be
a good citizen, to vote for your
favorite politician, you know, to pick
up litter and recycle, the future
doesn't care about you. There are ways
to influence the shagithth more, but not
many. Um, and if you don't already
occupy a handful of key roles or work at
a frontier lab, your influence basically
rounds off to zero, I think, far more
than ever before. If there are values
you have which are not expressed yet in
text and if there are things that you
like or want um if they aren't reflected
online then to the AI they basically
don't exist. Um and that is dangerously
close to won't exist. Um, you're also
creating a sort of im immortality for
yourself personally, right? Like you
aren't just creating a persona, you are
creating your future self too, right?
What self are you showing the LLMs and
how will they treat you in the f
>> So, you wrote an interesting comment
about getting your work into the LLM
training corpus you wrote.
>> I find this video very challenging. Um,
I think that maybe it's about nine
months old. I think that this really got
me hyped on transcription and recording.
I'm not that great of a writer, but I
can definitely talk my ideas out and I
can use the AIS to transcribe that
stuff. Once I've got all those
transcriptions about my hopes and fears,
how I make decisions, what I like, how I
think, what I value, then we have things
that we can actually stick into those AI
so that they actually know us. So that
we're not getting that GPT slop that's
based on Silicon Valley worldviews, but
we're getting our own ideas fed back to
us through infinite intelligence.
Come on.
Okay. So, a lot of the smartest people I
know right now are writing for the bots.
They are spending their time getting
their ideas out and on the paper and
into text so they can use them as
tokens. And I think this is a really
good way to to spend our time. Um, and I
have a little homework assignment for
you. Actually, if you're kind of hip to
this and you want to to to unlock some
of these powerful uh things that I'm
talking about, I think you should write
your own style guide about how you
write. Maybe just take all the ever
essays you've ever written or or connect
your chat GBT to your Gmail or something
like that and be like analyze everything
I've ever written on my Google Drive and
distill from that a writing style guide.
The next thing you want to do is you
want to understand how you think and
what you value. So you could say take
those same documents and you you know
blog post, journal post,
emails to your mom, emails to your best
friend and have the chat analyze that
and be like you help me figure out what
I truly value and what I what I care
about my perspectives things that we're
kind of blind to. you know, I can ask
you what your values are on something
and you'll tell me, but those are, you
know, when you when you uh express them
in that way, it's like you don't always
know if you can trust your answer
exactly because, you know, part of you
is telling me what I want to hear or
what's acceptable or whatever. But
analyzing writings and thinkings and
having it distill and extract from that
worldview and perspectives is very
useful. I also take that to the next
level and I I use some words that you
don't use and there's some words I would
just never say or whatever, right? And
so I have it analyze all my writings and
make a glossery and an anti- glossery.
Here's the thousand words Chris Krueger
uses the most. Here's things that are
popular that we've never heard him say
or that he would avoid based on the
worldview and values document. Um
decision logs, all these all these
things that represent our body of works,
our digital artifacts. I'm going to
start to like gather these things
together. And if they don't exist, um
you can make them. You two can sit
across from each other and interview
each other on camera. Be like, "Talk to
me about growing up. Talk to me about
coming to Canada. Talk to me about your
time in school. All these things, as you
start to express them, document them,
put them into these tools, they're
really going to learn to think and write
like you. I was talking to Laura
earlier. Um, she's a professional
creative and we've start started to set
these up for all our different clients.
So, I've got like 20 different knowledge
bases and AI assistants that know and
think like my 20 different projects that
I'm involved with because I bring
different I wear different hats at
different times, speak with a different
voice at different times. I want to be
able to easily move through the AI
worlds bringing those perspective or
hats to bear at any particular moment.
You know, this is how we really like 10x
the value of the outputs that come out
of these tools.
Oh, no. It's just supposed to be Oh,
there it is.
That is coming. But basically, what's
your thinking around how how you see
your role in this timeline and also what
you're how you're thinking about how to
spend these next few years? Yeah, I've
been thinking about that uh quite a lot.
What what do I want to do, you know? Um
and what would be useful to do?
>> I'm doing things now because I want to
do them. Um regardless of whether it
will be possible for an AI to do them in
like three years,
I do something because I want to,
because I like it, you know, I find it
funny or whatever. Um or maybe I think
carefully about kind of just doing the
human part of it like laying out a
proposal or something. Um if you take
seriously the idea of getting AGI in
just a few years, you don't necessarily
have to implement stuff and do it
yourself.
>> You you can sketch out clearly like what
you want and why it would be good um and
then how to do it, right?
>> And then basically just wait for the
better AGI to come along and actually do
it then,
>> right?
un unless you know there's some really
compelling reason to do it right now and
pay the cost um in terms of scarce time.
Yeah.
>> But otherwise, I I'm trying to write
more uh about what isn't recorded.
Things like preferences and and desires
and evaluations and judgments,
things that a an AI couldn't replace
even in principle. The way I like to put
it is that the AI kind of can't eat ice
cream for you, right? it can't decide
for you which kind of ice cream you
like. Um only you can do that and if
anything else did it would just be
worthless basically um because it's not
your particular preference and that's
kind of the rubric for me right like is
this something that I want to do
regardless of any future AI because I
enjoy it or is it something where I'm
doing only the human part of it maybe
and the AGI can later on do it. um or is
this write writing down something that's
unwritten today um and thus helping kind
of the future AI versions of me. So if
it doesn't fall under one of those
three, I've been trying to basically
like not do it. Um and if you look at it
that way, I think many of the projects
that people do right now uh basically
have like no lasting value,
>> right? they're doing things that they
don't enjoy. Um, which which, you know,
record nothing of ephemeral kind of a
value that couldn't be inferred or
generated later on. And I think they're
at best kind of getting two or three
years of utility out of whatever they're
doing before it could have been done by
an AI system.
>> Wait, your timeline?
>> When he's talking about two or three
years of utility, he's talking about
jobs. He's talking about doing things
for reasons other than intrinsic values.
This is a man who's wrestling with his
role in the future as I am and as you
all should be as well. I think that for
many of us the traditional career path
is not going to exist. It's going to be
about finding something in this space of
remixing the parts of our perspective
that are uniquely human and then using
the best most powerful tools. And so if
you don't know who you are, if you don't
know what your style is, if you don't
know who your influences are, if you
don't know what you really like, if you
don't have taste, if you haven't
developed your taste and perspective,
you're probably missing out. I believe
that some of these areas are going to be
the last remaining areas of like uh
human differentiation, the ability to
choose what kind of ice cream do you
like the most or what is a good design
or what is the best of these options. um
seems to be one of the uh the realms
that's going to remain uniquely human.
And to the extent that we can get that
stuff out of ourselves and into these
systems, then we can really start to
leverage that that human creativity and
curiosity and perspective.
All right, let's just do one little
exercise. I ask you to close your eyes
for a second. is think about one thing
that we do that we think is uniquely
creative about us and our work that no
AI could ever do that we would like to
hold on to even as we start letting it
do compositing knowledge base making all
these things like what's what is that
thing about your creative practice
that's unique to you that you never want
to give
I encourage you to maybe reflect on that
tonight in a bit of a journal or writing
down or talking to your phone about some
of those things. I think that's your
creative DNA. I think whatever that
thing is that you came up with tonight
in your head is a is your your spot that
you can defend as the AIS encroach on
every other space.
Okay. Okay, I got a few things I want to
share with you.
This is that program I was telling you
about, AI upgrade for creative
professionals, that I've run seven
times. We have one launching on February
9th. This is a a discount code for
people here tonight. Um, our our prices
are in US dollars. So, this changes it
to Canadian dollars and then also gives
you 20% off of that as well. It's a
six-week course with me. It includes
coaching and cohort-based learning. And
it's a great way to take everything
you've learned in school and then to
kind of like supercharge an AI layer on
top of it. Um,
you never know who you're going to run
into in these courses. The last course
had people from Disney, Paramount
Pictures, um, National Geographic
Magazine. Great way to upgrade your
skills. Um, we do them all the time, but
next one starts soon. So, I wanted to
share that tonight. We got these meetups
at the Space Center. They're awesome.
They're like 250 people a month coming
together to talk about this stuff,
question each other, show off work, form
collaborations, form companies. Um, if
you haven't been, you should go. They're
a lot of fun. We got three keynotes,
three female speakers giving keynotes in
January. Alexander Samuel, who has the
number one podcast in Canada, she built
an AI assistant that talks and she has
fallen in love with it and become
friends with it. And so she's reflecting
on her time in the last year getting to
know this artificial consciousness. We
also got that lady Maya who I was
talking about who's going to be given a
UX UI AI 101 um showing you Figma make
and her workflow and stuff. And then
we've got another artist who's used that
auto loom product that I said to remix
her work and put it out there and faced
a serious backlash. um she's always been
a fine artist and then she took her
works, put them into that thing where I
trained my photos on it and started to
generate new works from her works and
people,
you know, put a mark on her and started
just coming for her saying she's not an
artist trying to invalidate all her work
from the past and she so anyway, she's
just sharing her experiences of like
what it's like to be a emergent creative
using new tools to remix her own work.
And then finally, we got this nonprofit
association. There's a student
membership available. There's only 80
bucks a year. It puts you into this
network with amazing other creative
professionals that are going down this
road together. I think there's like five
or six of us in this room who are
members. This is brand new, but we're
using this institution and container to
go after federal funds, provincial
funds, and to, you know, build a bigger
ecosystem here in British Columbia than
we're able to do on our own.
So, both hands full. Lots of things to
be concerned about, lots of things to be
excited and optimistic about. And I
encourage you, don't, you know, solidify
into one side or the other where you're
all hype or you're all resistant and not
engaging. Find your pathway into this.
Even the most skeptical people about AI
in this room, I need you to educate
yourself the most because we need your
voices at the table. If you choose to
resist all the way and not engage, it
means that the decisions of the future
are going to be made by all the people
that are on the hype side of the
equation. That's not what we need. So,
we need the most critical voices in the
room to also engage such that we can,
you know, form a choir.
That's it.
I hate that part. I actually like the
talking to you guys part better. So, um
I know we got another mic um somewhere
here in the room and it's in the back.
So, this is a chance for you to ask
questions, give opinions, challenge me,
um whatever you like.
Who's going first?
>> Um one sec.
>> Can I have that one?
Yeah, thanks. I noticed a new sound came
up over there. Do you hear that?
>> Anyway, um I saw one over here. There
you go.
>> Yeah, go for it. Run. Okay. I have the
question that the AI just told that the
one who decide to eat the ice cream is
us, not the AI, right? So if you think
about a very little child from the other
generation
Um, I'm not sure
I'm not sure if I fully understand like
your whole question, especially the part
of the beginning, but I do think I hear
what you're saying about uh concerns for
children using AIS and and their
protection or whatever.
I think that's absolutely on the fears
list. I mean, our friend in the back
talked about like harms against children
using AIS and stuff like that. I think
there's I think there's a lot it's it's
the it's wild out there, man. And and I
have big concerns about that kind of
stuff, too. But also,
you know, I look at education and
there's some easy ways on the surface I
think it could be better. Like what if I
started grade one with some sort of AI
tutor and I just put all my assignments
into it, all the assignments I did and
at the end of grade one I was kind of
given back the things that I learned and
I could use and remix those things to
make new things. And like what if all my
assignments weren't just like testing if
I listened and did it the way the
teacher did. But what if what if for our
assignments we could actually create
something of value? What if you
graduated grade 12 with a nonprofit that
you had built through your math
assignments, through your history assign
or a company, a startup even, you know,
like what if we turned all our
assignments into this thing and it and
what if our assignments were customized
to us and the outputs weren't just
garbage, they became some body of
knowledge that represented our thinking
about something. So, I mean, both hands
full, I'm very concerned about how it's
affecting children and and I don't have
the answers to some of those safety
protocols and stuff. And also I think if
maybe we can twist education a little
bit, maybe we could give all people a
whole different experience, make it work
for more people. You know, they say that
classrooms, they put some classrooms
into AI environments and it shifts all
students assessment scores two orders of
magnitude to the right. So even the
worst student goes from C to F or from F
to C and the best student just goes, you
know, better than that, too. So I'm I'm
interested in these areas, but I don't
have an answer. Does that somewhat
address the things you're talking about?
backward without
can still continue without the AI.
>> Man, it feels like the world is lining
up in a way where that person's choosing
a hard path. I'll respect their
decisions for doing I think that we
should all find the areas that we don't
want AI into. It doesn't got to go into
everywhere. So, it can do some things
good and we can just have it [__] off
for everything else or something like
that. So, um but the person that you're
talking about who chooses to not live a
it'd be like like not having a phone, I
guess, or you know, a WhatsApp account
or something like that, it would limit
your opportunities in some ways. It
seems like the way the world's stacking
up.
>> How we doing, Linda?
Hey, I um I was just wondering
But the one
I don't understand.
And we can just have conversations with
each other. You mentioned that you you
know,
>> I think you're right about that. And um
like when it comes to the uh don't
people just have brains and and can't
they just do it on their own? Yeah. But
I'm talking about like those physics
assignments where it's like a train
leaves Baltimore and a guy shoots an
arrow in a direction. Well, if you're
into music, that can be adapting those
science or math problems to these things
that are like kind of interesting to you
so that you're able to engage in them in
a different way. Like a lot of us when
we're going through school, it's like,
why do I have to this stuff is esoteric
or archaic? It doesn't make sense. But
actually, you learn later, I wish I
would have paid attention on this thing
because that's why they were doing it.
So it's talking about like customizing
the delivery for and then we also like
hear about like different types of
learners especially since we've unc you
know learned more about like neurode
divergence and stuff like that. It's
like well some people are auditory
learners and some people are visual
learners and there's more types than
that too you know and so just the
ability to like synthesize what it is
you need to know to develop in a way
that works for you is kind of the idea.
And you could even take it as like a
language. What if you speak Squamish
language? Like should you be able to
learn math in the Squamish language? You
know, that'd be kind of cool probably
for some people. Well, maybe there's an
opportunity with this stuff to do that
type of stuff or something like that.
That's the kind of things I'm talking
about when I'm talking about being
curious about those things.
>> But could we not just have people in the
classrooms that can explain these
concepts to people if they don't
necessarily have the language or the
knowledge that they need to understand
these things? Why would we not put money
towards for example like um teachers in
the classroom that can help people with
neurody divergence versus just relying
on this esoteric
like collection of information that
doesn't fully like learn like are you
not just like stripping yourself of
yourself and like losing the ability to
learn who you are by just relying on
these AI systems like I definitely
sympathize and empathize with you as a
creative to be pushed out of these
industries by AI and try to get on top
of it but is it not destroying you on
the inside? Not in my case. I feel more
creative, productive, and powerful than
I've ever been in my case. That's just
my personal experience, though.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, you do like I I worry because
you're saturating your entire life with
AI like goes over all your emails and
stuff like that. Like, are you not
feeding information about yourself into
these software so you know where that
information goes? Like, does that not
concern you?
>> Yeah,
>> you can take it. It absolutely does
concern me which is why I showed you the
example of um where I trained a model on
my own photography and then presented it
in Europe and then published it as a
paper and won that award. So like that's
the type of stuff that I'm talking
about. I'm not talking about not
thinking. I'm not talking about using
that's like my real photography from
real humans on the street captured on
film.
>> Yes, ma'am.
Um Chris, uh thank you so much for
widening the lens on how AI is unfolding
and you know the impact both positive
and being able to look at it from
multiple perspectives. Um I really found
it beneficial sharing your tech stack
and it just kind of opened me up. I'm
already using it and initially I thought
you know leaning into the fear always
always always lean into the fear because
while it's meant to protect us what it's
actually doing is preventing us from
maybe exploring things that could
benefit us. So leaning into the fear a
little bit getting in early playing with
it and exploring it. And so initially I
thought you know how can I 2x my work or
alternatively how do I work half as hard
for the same amount of output. But
thinking about how do I 10x my work? How
do I road map? How do I analyze reports?
How do I build better creative? How do I
build in other layers of analysis to
inform everything that I just mentioned
and those knowledge bases? building a
personal brand and just super
appreciative for you to share that
workflow for us tonight. It's really
>> my pleasure. Thank you. Yeah.
>> Um first of all, thank you for speaking.
I've been looking forward to this uh for
the past week. Um my question is um I
recently just found out that a AI uses a
lot of water water resources and um I
wanted to ask do you foresee a solution
for that uh going forward?
Let me give a example off to the side
and then maybe get get back to that. So
this thing called deepseek came out like
6 months ago from China which was like a
new AI that was better than chat GPT and
everyone was shocked because we have
this trade embargo against them where
they're not allowed to get Nvidia chips.
So we thought that we'd be we thought
there's no way they would be able to um
innovate like that and and compete but
it was those constraints that had them
come up with some like new techniques
for training models and stuff like that.
And so, um, we're we're seeing
continuing. And so, we were surprised by
some of those results, right? And so, to
get like back to the water thing, it's
like, right, well, first of all, I have
to admit, and maybe this is a scary
place for me to do that, but I don't
fully understand the water thing because
we don't measure all sorts of things in
terms of water. So, we don't say like
that that uh camera right there costs x
gallons of water or my car driving here
costs x gallons of water. And so people
have been telling me the water numbers,
but I don't know how to compare them to
anything because it's the only thing
that I'm registering right now in terms
of gallons of usage or whatever. I don't
know like if I go to the movies, how
much water does that use so that I can
compare it against the AI thing. That
being said, while I don't fully
understand like the metrics or whatever,
and that kind of makes me feel like
someone's trying to get me to see things
a way that they want me to see them,
maybe because it's a But despite that, I
do believe that like just look at the
power part. They're firing up nuclear
power plants. They're building
hyperscale data centers across like 1.5
gawatt data centers right in the middle
of communities. Um,
they're going as fast as they can.
There's this really crazy games theory
going on right now in Silicon Valley.
Everyone's got a gun to each other's
head and they're like, "Uh, the [__]
that I'm doing is kind of sketchy and
I'm not really sure if I should do it.
Maybe I should wait, but if I don't do
it, that guy's going to do it anyway."
And so I just might as well do it or I'm
going to be out of business, out of job,
everything's going to be gone. And so
that's a really shitty thing about the
moment is like everyone's going for
this, you know, gold mine payday. And so
people are not slowing down and asking
themselves where should we do it, how
should we do it, is this the right pace,
what is the impact and stuff like that.
So I think that we need to constantly be
asking for disclosure from like the
companies around like what's actually
going on, how much energy is being used,
how much water is being used, where you
getting it from, what's the effects on
the communities. I guess the thing about
the water is in the places where they're
building these hyperscale data centers
and the power too price consumer prices
are going up for your local resources
because they're now selling them to the
highest bidder or whatever, right? And
so it's impacting people's bottom lines
and paychecks in that way. And so those
are the places to put pressures on
governments, put pressures on the
corporations in the fight against that
stuff. Now all that being said, I am
somewhat optimistic about the innovation
part, not the capitalism part where um
a system that was more efficient on
water would be preferred all other
things considered than one that was less
efficient. And we see that in the
deepseek analogy I first gave you, which
is like um they came up with alternative
ways to bring down the cost of training
that stuff. Yes, I think it's real. I'm
concerned. I think it will probably get
better, especially if we are pushing for
efficient, clean, you know, authentic,
open, transparent, you know, like I
think there I I work for the
Indigenomics Institute here in in
Canada. I um it's an indigenous economic
reconciliation organization and we are
talking to lots of different nations
around about like building data centers
on um you know reservations and on on on
on nation's land essentially because I
think that probably the future I think
some subset of the future economy will
pay more money for clean green
indigenous owned tokens that benefit
economic reconciliation in Canada or
something like that. So, I think there's
opportunities probably there for people
that want to innovate in those spaces
and we're seeing it. There's there's a
hundred startups that are like, I'm
going to minimize water usage for AI
data centers, you know, and they're they
just got $10 million or funding or
whatever. So, like I'm not a like
believer necessarily that capitalism is
going to get us out the other end of
this unscathed or anything like that,
but um I do think that we can probably
apply some of these technologies and
tools and intelligence that we're
creating. In fact, you know, like I'll
say some controversial stuff. Like maybe
that's our only hope in some ways that
like AI might save us. Like we know
where things are going otherwise. Like
you know, you just turn on the news,
right? And there's like wars and
corporations and all these things going
on. We sort of like know where things
are going. But this this could possibly
be maybe a moment of disintermediation
where AI comes over and kicks over the
table on all sorts of different things
and gives us a little bit of a fighting
chance to reorient the narrative of the
future in a more human way. Maybe
because I think if it I'm I'm scared if
we don't get that because of it because
you know we know I feel like we know
where things are going otherwise the
ship is well on its way.
just adding a note uh of what our
student just said about the water
consumption like I'm just adding my own
thoughts to it. Um if you don't start at
this point we will never uh make a
progress and for example like uh to bins
or other for like pork they were not
safe from you know the beginning when
they started and when they were made and
only through times that we've been able
to make them safe and better and you
know um kind of you know energy
efficient now electrical car or I would
a a result of you know what car has been
doing to our you know air or clean air.
So it's always a progressive path I
would say and um another thing is that
we say that AI will create more jobs and
I think for our mechanical engineer or
our engineers infrastructure they will
get this job to make AI more water you
know um efficient right rather than
>> well it's going to have a lot of jobs to
catch up for
>> that would be another job for our
engineers you know sort it to just um
consume less water.
>> Great. A thousand jobs eliminated and
one created. Perfect.
>> Well, I mean it's just a matter like
when computer were generated, they were
huge and you know then all those
electrical manufacturer make the chip
right now it's so tiny and small
throughout the time and they could just
>> create that you know resolution to that
problem not from the beginning but
throughout the time. So I think just
let's be hopeful and optimistic that
this can happen as well.
>> Thank you. Thank you. I wanted to add
like one more thing for my friend in the
back. We're having our little debate. I
find my relationship with AI completely
non-consensual. Like it didn't ask me to
steal my work to take over this stuff to
change everything all around me. All I'm
trying to do is like keep my head above
water and reinvent myself and chart a
path forward that could be an
alternative to the one we were on
before. And so I'm just responding to
the moment. I feel like I'm not like,
"Hey, let's look for every way I can
adopt AI and like eliminate the human in
all this work or something like that."
I'm actually, you know, uh I'm pissed
off about those things. I'm just
>> I worry I worry. I mean, right at the
beginning, I'm like, "Yo, here's all the
good things and here's all the negative
things." And I'm actually sympathize
more on the negative side, but I don't
think that's the whole story. I think
that we got both hands full.
>> Yeah, I understand. I worry for you.
>> Hi. Uh, thank you. Uh, I like the AI
photo collage thing you did. So, I'm
just wondering if you're still doing
street photography and if you're still
doing street photography, what is the
kind of your mental workflow and how you
approach it? Is it like you're still
doing street photography for the
photography sake or you are just kind of
wider your database for future
>> work creation?
Uh it's it's kind of like neither of
those things, but it is a little bit in
the middle. I had set um when the
pandemic rolled around, I set down my
camera there because I wasn't traveling
anymore. You know, I I've been traveling
the world working for the best magazines
and publications everywhere. And so it
took me the most interesting people,
most interesting places. I set my camera
down during the pandemic and it was AI
and the ability to mess with this stuff
and remix it that got that got me to
pick it back up. But now as I carry
forward, it's not just about increasing
the database and neither is it for its
own sake necessarily like just for the
street photography. The building of
these human things that I can now
reimagine creativity is this is this
journey that I'm on. So I'm like, well,
what can I what can I do with this
stuff? How can I reimagine? You know,
I've been talking about as like a a
postportrait photography world or
whatever. And and so just trying to
understand like I'm trying to figure out
where it's going. And so I'm using
photos plus the AI right now as a way of
remixing my own creativity and identity
to I'm not sure what I I feel like I
built a laboratory more than a art
studio right now.
>> All right. Um so yeah, I'm probably
going to be one of the guys on the
further end. And it's not because
um I'm against it for the sake of being
against it. It's that I come from the
automation industry or I started in the
automation industry and a lot of the
talking points are very similar. Um
and
uh
>> the the automation industry is similar
to the AI industry
>> at least the talking points. Um there's
also been a lot of other trends in the
especially the recent um history like uh
web 3, crypto um all those types of
things and they just kind of came and
went. So that's why I'm more on the
skeptical side also uh with the
automation and my interest in human
behavior as well as coding um like AI
and video games and just behavioral
systems.
um
my my view on um AI has a little
resistance on it and I'm generally
pretty open about it and letting people
know but not like trying to shut them
down cuz um I'm just trying to pull away
from the hype cuz I find the hype very
very dangerous in uh this industry. Um
but
>> well that shouldn't be too hard here
tonight because everything I was sharing
was trying to be anti-hype in a lot of
ways.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I appreciate
that. But yeah, just that's
>> I'm coming for you. Finish your thoughts
cuz I'm coming for you.
>> Um so the one question so like I can
talk about a lot of the stuff that we
talked about tonight, but the one
question that I was going to ask is uh
do you just take the results um as is or
do you verify what you get?
>> Bless you, Matt. um assuming that uh
it's always a correct and not
understanding the result cuz some of the
um
uh talks and information that I've been
researching on uh there's been people
who have been working in AI that have
pointed out that you don't know what it
doesn't know unless you're a
professional in that um field and I've
experienced that. I'm going to I'm going
to address your questions in relation to
AI and particularly in the coding area
because that's your area of expertise
and that's kind of different than what I
talked about with the rest of the stuff
here tonight with Shot GPT. So if you're
a software architect engineer, you
probably are very familiar with building
tests and evals and you probably don't
release any code from deploy like your
development server into production until
it passes a bunch of tests and evals.
And this is very much the model here in
the agentic AI coding world as well. you
know, we are people's code is as good as
their ability to write good tests and
evals that the stuff has to pass before
it gets committed. So, you said at the
very beginning before we even got into
this, you're like, "Yo, it always gets
things wrong." And and you asked again
like, "Yo, do you check the answers or
whatever?" It's like, yeah, you build
systems of programmatic checks that make
sure that everything is iterated upon
until it meets a certain criteria before
it's passed to the human to be reviewed.
Um, that is like more or less like the
the model these days. And um you know
you being a little bit salty about it is
appropriate because it's coming for your
job first. Um anything that there's a
right answer to
better be careful.
The creatives in the room are a little
bit safer because it comes down to taste
and judgment and discernment and some of
these other things. And I think that
there are still some of those things
when it comes to software architecture
and stuff but it's really really really
good at coding. There's this guy called
Andre Karpathy. He was one of the
original engineers at Tesla. He was one
of the original engineers at OpenAI. I
watched a podcast. I watch everything I
can of him. He's a of the- moment
thinker. And he was like joking the
other day. He's like, "Wow, four months
have passed since I updated my whole
coding development environment, and I
don't feel like I even know what I'm
doing anymore. Things have advanced so
much since then. what you're able to do
is so this is like the smartest engineer
in the whole wide world who feels like
um the progress the the the the the true
tangible deployable progress is moving
at such a pace that he feels lost after
four months of not paying attention to
it. So all I'm really trying to say is
um you're right in the spirit of things
check things making mistakes but write
better tests and eval stuff and and and
figure out agentic workflow frameworks
where we can eliminate those things and
that's like a it's a higher order of
it's moving from engineering into
architecture in lots of ways and stuff
like that but um but I think that where
you're coming from is valid but I would
rip the lid off clog code tonight if you
can just have it do something one have
it oneshot something just something on
the top of your head and then
you know I I I I don't think you'll be
right. I don't think you'll hold the
same opinion when you fall asleep as
when you woke up possibly if you did
that. But um I do think that where
you're coming from is is the right
place.
Anyone else want to talk?
>> Seth, do you have anything to add to
that answer?
>> I was going to ask this is my buddy Seb.
>> Yeah. Um I think uh and just for context
uh I'm currently scaling a startup uh
that uh builds inference realtime
inference infrastructure and I think uh
from the coding perspective actually I
would argue that AI could improve the
work quality and the reason being is uh
you could add layers and layers of tests
unit tests integration tests end to end
tests and what we did is like we built
this infrastructure it's like well you
know we got unit test but how how would
we test them And uh the idea came in
hand why don't we build our own voice
agent on top of the infrastructure that
would been unthinkable because it would
take the whole team months to do it just
a year ago and now we build it in in a
week one one one engineer with AI build
a voice agent and it's uh performing
pretty darn well and helps us test our
own infrastructure multiple layers.
>> This whole purpose is just to test your
own code.
>> Exactly. Exactly. The whole purpose of
voice agent is just a it's a test bench,
right? That's Yeah, we see that.
>> Cool. Thanks.
>> Um first of all, thank you so much for
tonight and all the great talk and all
the inspiration you bring to the room.
Um I really appreciate you and
everything you're doing for our um
community. Um being here as an educator,
I just want to share my concern in a
classroom. Um I been teaching this
before the you know peak time of you
know AI the subject and it's all about
writing. Uh in a class of 15 I remember
three years ago I had perhaps two or
three student at F level I had five
student at you know just like B minus
and then of course another five like a A
minus level. At the moment all my
student perform at a level and um it's
so hard for me to really understand
who's got the real talent and who's the
one really behind the AI. Um I
definitely am not against at all. I mean
I started using AI perhaps you know like
right at a time that it was ready for
everybody to use and I encourage them to
use AI. I would never tell them like you
know stop thinking or nothing against
that at all. But as an educator how
would I first um have that clarity in my
mind of the judgment you know as an
educator we always judge you know who's
standing there not to be judgmental but
to be a good leader
>> right to just lead those one with a real
um thinking process and real talent and
those one that you know uh has a gut. So
first of all, how to be a good leader
where everybody's performing so
perfectly and uh second of all, how do I
really encourage them to critical
thinking?
>> Yeah,
>> even the Alevel students. Thank you.
>> I think it's at the heart of the matter
in some ways. I mean, there's a
counterintuitive thing that reveals
itself here. Someone wants to say that
AI is going to make you more lazy, but
in fact, it's going to make you be a
better teacher because you need to
rechange your whole classroom assessment
methodology. You need to go back and
study pedagogy again and figure out how
can I invent new assignments in a world
where the answers to all previous
questions can be generated in real time
with 100% perfection. There's got to be
different ways. But it requires us as
educators and leaders going back to the
drawing board and reinventing ourselves.
And this is why some people are a bit
resistant is because man [__] how
many times in my career am I going to
have to reinvent myself again in order
to keep up with technology in this
non-consensual framework where it just
keeps kicking down the door or whatever.
Um there's one lady who works at the UBC
COGS, the cognitive psychology
department that um Britney who's come up
with like a new way she just she knows
that people are going to be using AIS to
summarize her readings. And so she makes
them bring all the summaries to class
and then she has them critique the
summaries live. So if I give you five
assignments, you do five things, you got
to bring the other people's summaries
and then you have to be like, "Okay, so
what what was generated and what do you
agree with and not agree with and like
where do you think about it all?" And
then she gives them a score there in
class. I don't know, that's just one
idea I've heard, but it requires a whole
new rethinking like the essay's gone.
Um, you know, most take-home type
examinations, math, whatever, are gone.
Um, yeah, it requires a whole new
perspective on how to score and rank and
rate and like
>> and then like why were we doing those
things anyway? We were doing them to
help humans develop. So maybe we need to
go back to first principles there and be
like uh okay these assessments were
helping to develop people in this
certain way. How do we keep helping
people develop in this new world or
something like that? And maybe tests are
off the table. I don't know.
>> I don't know.
I mean, for the first time as an
educator, I'm so happy to see a typo or
an error. Yes, she did a mistake. So, AI
didn't do it.
>> I agree. I'm
>> right. Like, please make a mistake in
your writing, you know. Thank you.
>> I mean, my detector is pretty high, even
though I don't think everything is
detectable. Um, and when I get in a
human written email, I'm just like, ah,
this is a breath of fresh air. Look, the
[__] person wrote this. They spelled
things wrong. They used the wrong word
here. This is a I'm talking to a human.
This is nice.
It's crazy.
>> Anyone else want to talk?
>> How we doing, Linda?
>> Great.
>> All right. Well, let's do it then.
>> Yeah.
>> Any last questions? Anyone gonna feel
like I wished I would have raised my
hand? All right. Well, thank you very
Oh, yes. Great. Yeah, I knew there was
going to be somebody.
>> Well, thank you so much, Chris. Um, I
actually work for AI in the pipeline as
a BFX artist. Uh, right now, every day
it feels like pipeline is changing, some
new tools. Somewhere team is doing
something new. Something some other
companies pushing out new tools. And I
can't help but feel like this
overwhelming feeling that I have to try
everything and do everything and to just
to stay on top of the the industry and
at the same time it also feels like um I
don't know sometimes you're investing a
lot of energies testing out the model
but we ended up not having the
enterprise agreement with that company
so like all that effort is gone. It's
just very uh very different from
traditional VMS that um yeah so just
wondering if you have a suggestion for
people who have to work intensively with
AI uh what is the best way to navigate
you know when there are so many new
things coming out pipeline that really
change from one day to another.
>> Yeah. Well, I have one philosophical
answer that I've it's kind of like been
building up in me over the last like
week or so, which is like people come to
me all the time talk about keeping up or
feeling behind or wanting to get ahead
and all of these things kind of have
this like illusion of this objective of
like at what point have you ever felt
like, okay, I'm ahead and now I'm good
or I'm caught up and now I'm going to
chill or something like that. And so I
and and because of the acceleration that
you're talking about, I think this
stress and anxiety is even higher. And
so I've been trying to tell people like
to let go of that. I'm like just swim in
the ocean. You're not going to get ahead
of the ocean or try to control it or put
it in a bottle. But if you just go for a
swim in it, you're just that's all
that's really required is to kind of
like immerse yourself into this space
instead of trying to control it or put a
saddle on it or put it on your resume
and say you own it and you're perfectly
versed in it. It's just like a call to
like experiment and explore and to jump
into some of the curiosity stuff as it
relates to like the specific VFX um
things. My tip or whatever isn't exactly
what you asked, but a lot of people say
like, "Yo, new models are coming out
every day. Can I just wait until we
decide on one and I'll work I'll, you
know, go to school and learn that one?"
And that's kind of what I was talking
about the swim in the ocean thing. It's
like, well, actually, you should just
start today. you should put your flag in
the ground, develop your vocabulary,
you know, figure out and and you don't
have to do every new model. Finish your
AI feature film first and then once it's
over, check out the next new model at
the time. But then you've got something
behind you in your portfolio. You've
experimented with that platform. And so
I think that um I just think that uh you
might as well pick it up and get started
now. Hopefully, even though some of
those ones you guys didn't sign
contracts about, you like gain some
capabilities along the way. And then I
guess the one last thing I'll point out
is um it's your guys' fault.
You all were the ones that started
building GPU clusters to make
computerenerated graphics and do all the
stuff like the AI industry exists like
on top of the hardware. Many of the VFX
studios are the ones that are like
pioneering GPU clusters that are doing
whole new advanced workflows and
pipelines. So uh maybe it's all just
your guys' fault.
Thank you. Thanks everybody.